- Explain one backup storage method e.g. cloud, external drive, RAID etc.
**Ans:** One of the most commonly used type of backup storage is cloud storage since it's really easy for anyone to use. You can access cloud storage from anywhere as long as you have an internet connection and some companies e.g. Google gives you some cloud storage space for free making it the cheapest option as long as you don't need more space than provided in the free tier. But if you require more space then you'll have to pay a subscription. It's really easy to get more storage when required as you just have to pay. This makes cloud storage very convenient to use as it doesn't require much work to set up and maintain since the company handles everything.
- What does the term disaster recovery mean?
**Ans:** When fault tolerance fails and you lose your data, the strategies, technologies and such involved to restore IT systems and data access following a disaster e.g. natural disasters, cyberattacks, equipment failures etc are collectively known as disaster recovery. The goal of disaster recovery is to minimize downtime and data loss allowing companies to continue their operations seamlessly.
- Describe two recovery strategies used to restore IT systems after a failure.
**Ans:** Incremental backups are a type of backup
- Why is it important to regularly test backup and recovery systems?
**Ans:** To minimize the risk of data loss and to be prepared just in case data loss occurs.
- Explain the differences between a cloud backup system and local backup system.
**Ans:** Cloud backup systems are far more convenient and easier to use. It's very easy to increase cloud storage by paying some sort of subscription. The company handles storing all the data and such for you and is responsible for keeping your data safe and secure. Local backup systems on the other hand are slightly more difficult to use as you are responsible for creating backups properly and ensuring that all required data is backed up properly. It can also be more costly as the user needs to buy and maintain his own hardware. However local backups tend to be more secure and allows far more flexibility and control.