## Time Management
- **Pomodoro:** A time management method where you work in 25 minute intervals known as a pomodoro and take a 5 minute break. The work and break duration can be changed according to your needs. It's very popular and improves focus however it may not be great for studying difficult and large topics making it rather inefficient.
## Study Techniques
- **Flashcards:** A piece of card/paper with questions on one side and answers on the other. It's a great form of active recall, retrieval practice and spaced repetition.
- **Past Papers:** Exam papers from previous years. Very, very effective as it teaches you the question formats/styles, timing and serves as retrieval practice, active recall and allows you to learn from the mark scheme. It tests your knowledge, adapts you to the pressure of the real exam, practices your deduction and induction skills. It's very easy to get your hands on past papers since they're freely available on the internet for whatever you're doing. Just spam these again and again and you'll quickly improve drastically.
- **Studying With Music:** Some people may find that listening to music helps them to focus on their studies for long periods of time. Don't listen to anything with lyrics though because the lyrics can muddle up your brain while you're studying.
- **Reading Notes:** Rereading notes is another extremely popular studying method however, it's scientifically proven to be highly ineffective and is the last thing you want to do. It gives you the impression that you're learning, but you retain only about 10% of what you read. It's a passive method so you're not testing your knowledge or improving your understanding in any way.
- **The Pareto Principle:** 80% of the results come from 20% of the effort.
## Tips
- Don't pull all-nighters or go on study marathons. This is because your learning is consolidated and strengthened when you sleep. Sleep is when your memories are created and your knowledge strengthened. Any irrelevant information is weakened from memory while important information is strengthened. Never neglect sleep, especially in your exam seasons.
- $Knowledge \ Gained = Time \times Intensity^2$
- To increase productivity, do past papers, flashcards, reviewing questions you're bad at and all.